PEGI 3 we're back with another episode
of the boot room this week myself and
match magazines down and cross are
tackling the subject of tackling is that
right Darren yeah that's right there are
a number of different ways of tackling
FIFA 13 and we're gonna look at those
today great so where do we want to start
the first thing I tell you is to start
with making sure you've got the right
player selected when you tackle so use
that player change button to make sure
you're not following somebody all over
the pitch and then the second thing is
choosing the right kind of tackle and as
we said there are there are a number to
choose one now I move on to the slide
tackle in just a second but first let's
talk about this standing tackle how
would we do that well you do that just
by pressing the B button when you have
nice and close to you man but the key
with it really is timing and that's true
of all the tackles we're going to talk
about today if you commit too soon or
too early then you're really going to be
in trouble and probably give you a
opponent a free run of the goal so
you've got to get that timing right and
with the standing tackle it's when
you're nice and close and you're sure
that you're going to get a four on the
ball so if you're not close enough and
you don't want to slide what should you
do we should continue to contain or
jockey them until you do get nice and
close to the man and then once you are
hopefully the game will perform a kind
of auto tackle for you which is really
my preferred method of win the ball back
now auto tackle is not something you'd
see in the instruction manual but it
does as part of the defensive AI it will
tackle on your behalf in it absolutely
and that's what I really like about it
because it leaves you free to think
about the direction and the movement of
your defending player and not worrying
too much about what time to go for the
tackle
obviously there are occasions when you
need to actually manually tell the game
yes I want to tackle now but a lot of
the time you'll be able to just to
concentrate on the movement and
positioning and then get nice and close
and let the game win it back for you or
at least attempting now let's move on to
the slide tackle I guess there are times
to use it and definitely not use it on
it yeah so I'll go for a slide tackle if
I'm 100% sure that I'm going to get the
ball and be able to keep it or as a last
resort and there are really two
situations that for me are described as
last resort that's when the guys threw
on gold and it's the only chance I've
got to make a challenge is to go for a
slide or secondly if I'm not close
enough to the player but I'm between him
and the goal sometimes I can anticipate
the direction of the shot and then slide
into the path of the ball and hopefully
make a block do you also slide in if the
ball has come away from their foot
slightly say if they've just knocked it
away yeah that's really the best time to
make a slide if the ball is too close to
the opponent and
attempt to slide tackle there's a real
high risk that you'll take a bit of the
man first and give away a foul so you
really you want to time it just as I
nudged the ball away with their touch
and then you can hopefully sweep in and
take the ball away and I guess it's also
worth saying never ever tackle from
behind if you're doing slide tackle yeah
absolutely I mean you're looking at a
straight red card there and quite
rightly now something else that comes
with its risks if you use it too much in
one situation is push pause now that's
right yeah I do use push/pull quite a
lot so under quite an effective way to
just get your body in front of the
attacker and perhaps just sort of edging
away from the ball but you do have to be
careful with it as you said if you use
it too much or if you have a
particularly strict referee who will
quite rightly punish you and usually
that will mean a yellow card or and very
least a free-kick for your opponent so
you do have to be careful with it but it
can be a really effective tool if you
use it well
it's also useful if someone's about to
pull the trigger and now on goal yai
they won't know about to pull the
trigger or even if they're about to play
a pass or if they're right on the the
touch line using your body then just to
sort of nudge them on where the other
can either make them take out play or
can miss kick the pass or the shot and
that could make a difference between a
goal another goal
Darren great advice as always what we're
looking at next week so next week we're
going to look at using left trigger to
give you advantage in defense and the
tuck wait I'll make sure I get my
trigger fingers warmed up we'll see you
next week on the B room